# navtag
Path shortcut manager CLI for Unix-like systems.

## Features
- List, add and remove shortcuts
- Resolve shortcut labels to their path
- Resolve paths including shortcut labels to their total path
- Shell extension: shortcut support for built-in commands and more
- Path / label tab-completion for extended commands

## Quickstart
1. Clone this repository to any destination
2. Enter the cloned repo and run:
```shell
./install.sh
```
3. If you want to add the extension commands to your shell, follow the instructions generated by install.sh
## Useage
From here on, `$mfp` is equivalent to the path to the shortcut file.
### List shortcuts:
```shell
navtag $mfp -l
```
### Add shortcut:
```shell
navtag $mfp -a <label> <path>
```
### Remove shortcut:
```shell
navtag $mfp -d <label>
```
### Translate shortcut labels:
```shell
navtag $mfp -t [label]
```
## Shell extension
The following commands are implemented in `commands.sh`, using `navtag`.
They shall be used for managing and manipulating the shortcuts.
This is a summary on the usage of every command:
- `marks`: list all shortcuts
- `mark <label> [path]`: create a shortcut for given the optional path and label. The default path is the current working directory
- `unmark <label>`: remove shortcut with given label

The following list are all implemented built-in commands which support shortcuts:
- cd
- cp
- mv
- mkdir

If you would like addtional commands to support path shortcuts, they might be implemented in [this branch](https://github.com/noahpy/navtag/tree/local), or you could [configure them by yourself](#configure-additional-commands).

### Dependencies
You might need to install the [bash-completion](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion/) package.
You can check this by running `_filedir` in your terminal.

### Tips and Tricks

#### Configure Additional Commands
If you want your favorite command to support your shortscuts / tab-completion of shortcuts, you can check whether it was already implemented in [this branch](https://github.com/noahpy/navtag/tree/local). If not, follow the instructions below. Feel free to contribute your implementation to the *local* branch! :)

1. Override the current command \\
Create a function which overrides the command, for this instance the `touch` command.
```shell
touch(){
    navtag "$mfp" -t "$@" | xargs touch
}
```
Replace every occurence of `touch` with the name of your respective command.
This does not work for commands which can not run as a subprocess, so you might need to implement some workarounds (see implementation of `cd`).
Reload your shell to include the change.

2. Add tab-completion for shortcut labels \\
In order to support tab-completion of shortcut labels, one needs to implement the respective completion function.
These are already implemented in `commands.sh`: `_navtag_labels`, `_navtag_dir` and `_navtag_filedir`. 
As the touch commands completion should include labels, directories and files, we need to use the `_navtag_filedir` function (see comments in `commands.sh`).

Go to the line where the repective completion is instantiated:
```shell
complete -F _navtag_filedir -o nospace mv cp 
```
Add your command to the list of commands to support the completion:
```shell
complete -F _navtag_filedir -o nospace mv cp touch
```
You can also add aliases to support tab-completion.


#### Label naming


### Troubleshooting

## Examples:
Here are some small examples given a file structure and shortcuts like below:
```shell
.
├── dir1
│   └── dir1.1
│       └── file1.txt
├── dir2
│   └── file2.txt
└── file3.txt
```
```shell
$ marks
Mark file: /some/path/file.txt
LABEL : PATH
------------
d11 : dir1/dir1.1
d2 : dir2
```
### Add new shortcut (for current directory)
```shell
mark my_shortcut
```
### Enter dir2
```shell
cd d2
```
or
```shell
cd d2/
```
### Move file1.txt to dir2
```shell
mv d11/file1.txt d2/.
```
### Copy file3.txt to dir1.1 as file4.txt
```shell
cp file3.txt d11/file4.txt
```
